---
layout: post
title: The Books I Read in 2012
date_created: 27 December 2012
location: London, UK
---

This Christmas I've received a Kindle Paperwhite for Christmas, and I'm very excited to finish off a lot of existing reads and starting some new ones in 2013.

But 2012 was a reasonably busy year for reading for me. For my own memory, and in case anybody is looking for recommendations, here are some 140-character-or-less reviews/synopses of the books I can remember reading. :)

### World War Z by Max Brooks

New perspective on a classic genre. Realistic, fast paced and clever. Something for everyone in the characters. Read before seeing the film.

### The Walking Dead Compendiums 1 & 2 by Robert Kirkman

If you like being constantly reminded of a grim and never-improving apocalyptic world for unlucky maniacs, The Walking Dead is for you.

### Y: The Last Man by Brian K. Vaughan

For any man who thinks being the only guy'd be great, this story will give you a reality check. Realistic postmale world. Women do just fine

### Warm Bodies by Isaac Marion

Funny & romantic twist on the Zombie Apoc genre. _Not_ Twilight but with Zombies, but Twilight fans would probably enjoy this. Easy read.

### Enders Game by Orson Scott Card (re-read)

Classic tale of a boy genius in a future playing video games to save the human race. It's a real character piece.

### We3 by Grant Morrison & Frank Quitely

Adorable and sad, short graphic novel. Great for animal lovers, but also terrible for animal lovers. Fantastic art.

### Ready Player One by Ernest Cline

A grim look a future in which the world revolves around a epic quest set by a single avid gamer and visionary. Plenty of great gaming nods.

### JavaScript: The Good Parts by Douglas Crockford

Great for JS veterans as well as beginners, if you want to unravel allback spaghetti and know what madness to avoid, Crockford's your man.

### Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson

If the way Apple works eludes you, this book will clear it up. You will probably leave with mixed opinions of this influential character.

### Losing my Virginity by Richard Branson

A story of the life of Virgin boss which seems honest in parts, and dramatised in others, but is overall quite inspiring.

### Down Under by Bill Bryson

Great tale of an exciting and bizarre country. An honest look at some of the problems facing modern Oz and a bit about interesting history.

### Player One by Douglas Coupland

Real-time 5-hour apocalypse story with a small cast: curious and mostly-self-aware. Relatable, intriguing. Typical Coupland. Easy read.

### The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald

Frustrating but compelling novel if you loathe self-obsessed, shallow, hollow people. I think that's the point?
