---
published: true
layout: post
title: A trip through Asia in 2015
date_created: 12 May 2015
location: London, UK
comments: true
description: From July 2015 until December 2015 I will be on a nomadic journey through Asia - read all about my plans here.
thumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/asia-travel-card.png"
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
---

Starting in July 2015, I will be taking a journey through Asia. My first stop is **Tokyo, Japan**, and my final destination before home, I expect, will be **Hanoi, Vietnam**. My travels will take me to 9 different countries using at least 5 different modes of transportation: aeroplane, boat, train, bus, and tuk-tuk.

That's the rough plan, anyway. I've created [a page which I will update as my itinerary changes and the trip goes on](/travel), as well as content relating to each destination. I'll use this as the main source of info for third parties about my trip.

**What's the purpose of the trip?** I've always been a keen traveller, but since I visited South Korea for the first time in 2010, I fell in love with the place and decided that I _had_ to live there at some point. That's where this idea began. I soon realised I could extend the trip and see other parts of Asia I've always wanted to see, too. Over weeks of map-trawling, flight-searching and spreadsheet-tinkering, it started to look like a real itinerary.

{% include _figure.html src="/img/asia-trip-korea-photo.jpg" caption="The Hyangwonjeong pavilion at the Gyeongbokgung palace in Seoul." %}

Of course, this is a break from my usual working life in London. But while I'm out there I won't just vacationing.

First, I'll continue working on my side projects. Second, I'll be bouldering wherever I can find rocks to climb or a gym to climb in, just like I do in London. Third, I'll be learning about the places I'm staying and trying to get familiar with the culture. Last, but certainly not least, I'll be hoping to make some friends on the way.

That's where you, the reader, come in. If you're in any of the places listed in my itinerary, and any of the things I'm saying sound interesting to you, let's meet up and get a drink of coffee, beer, or whatever it is that people drink around here. I'd love to meet you.

<a href="mailto:dan@danhough.com?subject=Nomadic+Journey" class="cta--primary">Get in touch.</a>

My trip starts on the 2nd of July 2015, and ends on the 20th of December 2015. As I said, I have a plan. Half of it is certain, the other half still may change. But as it stands at the time of writing this article, here it is:

* Tokyo, Japan (12 days)
* Seoul, South Korea (82 days)
* Beijing, China (3 days)
* Pyongyang, North Korea (4 days)
* Qingdao, China (1 day)
* Zhangjiajie, China (3 days)
* Shanghai, China (2 days)
* Hong Kong (6 days)
* Bali, Indonesia (29 days)
* Singapore (5 days)
* Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam (1-2 days)
* Phnom Penh, Cambodia (1-2 days)
* Siem Reap, Cambodia (1-2 days)
* Bangkok, Thailand (5-7 days)
* Vientiane, Laos (1-2 days)
* Luang Prabang, Laos (1-2 days)
* Hanoi, Vietnam (2-4 days)

Again, this will be kept up-to-date on my [travel page](/travel), so keep an eye on that. I am hugely, hugely excited about this trip. :smile:

## Travelling Light

I've been doing a lot of research for this trip. I've read the blogs of many nomads who've gone before me and the way to do this seems to be to go as light as possible. If I could, I'd fit my entire life into a small rucksack. But I will need a little extra, so I'm going for one small wheelie bag which can be fit into hand luggage, plus a small rucksack. This will be the longest trip I've ever taken with so little luggage, and I'm excited about what it means for my mobility.

## Travelling Solo

Like most people, I love to travel with my friends and loved ones. We share the experience of discovering new places together, of being relaxed and doing things we love together.

But I've also learned to appreciate the joy of travelling alone, originally by necessity (nobody wanted to join me on my first trip to South Korea) and eventually by choice. I find myself being more adventurous and less socially awkward when I'm travelling solo. I'm forced to go out and make friends with locals and fellow travellers, and to genuinely do the things I want to do. Plus, from a logistical point of view, 90% of the time it's a lot easier.

It does get lonely at times, but that's when the desperate urge to be around other humans comes into play and boosts confidence, at least most of the time.

Plus, I'll have a few visitors anyway :smile:

## See you there?

As I mentioned before, I'd like to meet people while I'm out there. If you'd like to hang out, <a href="mailto:dan@danhough.com?subject=About+your+trip">send me an email</a>. And keep an eye on my [travel](/travel) page, too, for updates - or subscribe using the form below. Thanks for reading, and happy travels!
