---
published: true
layout: post
tags: [travel,travel-exclusive,trip-2015,seoul,tokyo]
title: Hello DPRK
description: A brief account of the busiest month of my trip so far, Korean language schhol explained, plus Tokyo revisited.
thumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/farewell-korea/farewell-korea-thumbnail-tw.png"
ogthumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/farewell-korea/farewell-korea-thumbnail-og.png"
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
date_created: 7 October 2015
location: Beijing, China
comments: false
time_to_read_estimate: 10
---

'"I do not want to take any photos," that is how you will act when we go through here.' Our Korean guide politely reminds us that many parts of North Korea are not for tourists to share with with their friends back home, at least not by visual means. A written description will have to do.

If you've ever been to the Demilitarised Zone between North and South Korea, there's a very good chance that you did it from the South.

You will have been subject to a very strict tour through military checkpoints on the way to the Joint Security Area (JSA). You will have been told that these should absolutely *not* be photographed, and that a soldier will be forced to delete your photos if they are. You will be told that the government controlling the soldiers on the other side were the instigators of the Korean war and the language used to say all this will have been rather flowery indeed.

In fact, the North Korean trip to the Demilitarised Zone is the same in all these ways, but that is were the similarities end. After you enter the JSA, the South Tour will insist that you strictly *do not move* from the two single lines facing the North, and that you do not take photos of certain buildings; no explanation is given for why.

In the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), they practically insist that you take selfies in front of the South Korean Peace House and the blue UN conference huts. As a tourist, you'll scutter around on the steps leading down to the famous Military Demarkation Line (MDL), then wave and chat to restless-looking soldiers of the Korean People's Army.

As we wander quite freely around the JSA and Panmunjom (the area around the JSA), we're told all about the different incidents which have occurred at the famous, heavily-guarded border. The axe "accident" which occurred after a South Korean soldier allegedly threw an axe at a North Korean soldier during a tree-felling operation is a good example. This is a popular tale for the tour guides on the South to tell, but to them it's an axe *murder*, committed by a North Korean soldier who got a bit more emotionally invested in a tree's life than he should've.

This little tour is one of the first in a small selection of military-related tours which heavily emphasise the apparently aggressive nature of the "puppet Government" in the South.

Let me say that again: a small selection. Almost a token, in fact. What would you be expecting from a four-day group tour around select areas of the DPRK? Constant attempts to brainwash you? Propaganda and self-criticism sessions? Occasional insults directed towards the Americans on the tour?

North Korea is famous for this sort of thing, and while the official position is ludicrous aggression towards the "imperialists", the reality on the street with the average North Korean person in Pyongyang is very, very different.

## Nice to meet you

It's 4pm on the 7th of October, and dozens of eager tourists from all over the world are gathering for a pre-tour briefing in the offices of Koryo Tours, the mostly-British-run, Beijing-based travel company specialising in tours of North Korea.

They have a healthy relationship with the state-run Korean International Tourism Company of the DPRK, a 200+ strong army of English-speaking, well-dressed, well-mannered and welcoming Korean hosts whose main job for the Workers Party of Korea (WPK) is to show foreigners a side of North Korea that they don't get to see in the press, up close and personal.

When we've sat down in Koryo's presentation room, we're all given blue pouches full of all the forms and some useful information we'll need for our time in North Korea. I quickly flip to the Korean phrases section, eager to see how my favourite foreign language differs north of the DMZ. Realising that the words written down are one level more polite than the typical Korean words I use when speaking to people in Seoul, I ask the person in charge of this briefing, Vicky (also my group's British guide) whether this is an example of how every day North Koreans speak to one another. Yes, she says, it is. Finally, all that polite-speaking training I had at Korean school in Seoul was going to pay off.

The differences don't end there, though. Where's all the Konglish I've become accustomed to in South Korea? Where's "Pa-ee-ting" (fighting!) to offer someone good luck? Where's "na-ee-su" (nice) to express your respect at someone's super cool behaviour? Thankfully, one piece of Konglish at least endures, the most important one: "Coffee" is still "Koh-pee".

The biggest difference is the word for the country, however. In South Korea, when I want to talk about the Korean lanuage, culture, people or even the country I use "Han-guk" as my base. Not in the North: "Cho-son" is the country here. I immediately decide to wipe "Han-guk" from my vocabulary for the next four days. I most certainly don't want to confuse the two.

One of the first phrases is in this book is a very important one. It is a phrase which lends itself to a popular Korean song, known as "Ban-gap-sum-nee-da", or in English, "Nice to meet you". This song, for better or worse, is known by most people familiar with North Korea. It's a go-to Karaoke classic in the North. It doesn't feature any political language, it's easy to learn and sing, and it has a catchy hook that even non-speakers can get into quickly.

---

"Nice to meet you," I say in Korean to my new guides. Once again, the surprise at being able to speak Korean rears it's entertaining head, and how. From now on, I'll be asking questions to Koreans left, right and center, and they'll produce a mixture of reactions.

My favourite is a reaction to any question: I ask something, and they stare at me with their mouth agaw for a few seconds before answering and then turning to a friend or colleague to giggle.

You see, the people of North Korea don't get anywhere near as many tourists as their counterparts in the South.

---



---

<!-- ??? What to do with this?? -->

They're mostly educated in some kind of foreign studies, and from what I'm told, largely come from priviliged families in the DPRK. Koryo Tours is assigned two Korean guides per sub-tour group (about 18 people per group) to organise the transportation, pay for meals and tickets, and share information about their country.

My group was led by Vicky from the UK, and two Korean guides who I'll refrain from naming: one a mid-20s man, a recent graduate of Kim Il Sung University, and the other a mid-20s woman, also recent graduate from the University of Foreign Studies in Pyongyang.

Notes:

## 08/10

* Went to football match immediately, vs Phillipines. Both good, DPRK clearly a lot better.
* Rattly old plane flight, probably because it was russian and we were in china

