---
layout: post
title: Busking Report – Waterloo (Pitch 1)
date_created: 30 March 2018
description: A report from my busking session at Waterloo on the 30th of March 2018!
location: London, UK
time_to_read_estimate: 2
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
tags: [books]
thumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/busking/2018-03-30-busking-progress-tw.png"
ogthumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/busking/2018-03-30-busking-progress-og.png"
---



Today the lovely folks spending time in Waterloo on a Friday afternoon were kind enough to give me £12.59, mostly in the form of 20p coins. So, £6.30 for me and £6.30 for [Crisis](https://www.crisis.org.uk/).

Since I was there for over two hours, that makes my hourly salary £5.72. This is the 3rd-worst hourly rate I've ever earned busking (the worst was £3.37, at Southwark).

Waterloo's first (WL1) pitch faces two passageways to the Bakerloo line, one of which is an "out" passage and one which is an "in" passage. To the left, there's an escalator leading to the main Waterloo underground concourse. It doesn't get a lot of direct footfall, but plenty of people will see you at WL1, from afar. Acoustics are pretty good, too. It's a high-ceilinged wall so even a large chunk of people in front of you won't dampen the sound too much.

### Some notable moments

Well, I was half an hour late to this one because I was watching _Ready Player One_ at the cinema, so I interrupted another Busker's marathon six-hour session. They weren't too disappointed to have been kicked off, but they did remark that they're also not too keen on the possibility of contactless payments for buskers - something I'll talk about in another blog post - because it'd make it more difficult to avoid "the taxman" - something I'll talk about in _another_ blog post.

{% include _figure.html src="/img/busking/2018-03-30-waterloo-pitch.jpg" caption="The pitch" %}

But more...

* Someone going "well done" and giving me a bit of applause.
* Someone approaching me about their business, trying to get more buskers more bookings for weddings etc.
* A friend of mine walking through the hall where the pitch was _twice_.
* Being questioned on whether I'm meant to be there by the station staff, because I'd lost my sign-in sticker (they aren't very sticky!).
* Someone asking "would you take my dog as a tip?" Obviously, I would.
* I played Alanis Morissette's _Ironic_ on the tube for the first time. I didn't do a very good job of it, but I'm glad I did it because I do quite enjoy playing it and it's very well-known, I think.
* I actually played five original songs, and one of them, _Bored Bored Bored_, earned me about 50p. Not great, but not terrible either. Inevitable plug:

<div style="text-align: center;padding-bottom:1em">
	<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed?uri=spotify:track:19aM7WJ5aTgKVQxLnZcTZT" width="300" height="80" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true"></iframe>
</div>

### The first & biggest tip

It was a rainy day, and the empathy of the second song was not lost on the commuters that day. _Why does it always rain on me?_ touched the heartstrings of two people who gave me about £3.50 in total. Thanks! Off to a good start, but sadly the generosity didn't last.

{% include _figure.html src="/img/busking/2018-03-30-waterloo-view.jpg" caption="The view from the pitch" %}

### The best performance

I did a pretty good performance of _Torn_ towards the end. It didn't get me much moolah, about 50p, but it was full of energy so - oh well!

## How to improve

Practice _Ironic_! Also, there's a few songs that have fallen out of my set like _Fat Bottomed Girls_ and _Trouble_, which I'd like to reincorporate so I need to practice those too.
