---
layout: busking
title: Busking Report – Angel
tags: [music]
date_created: 04 May 2018
description: A report from my busking session at Angel on the 4th of May 2018!
location: London, UK
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
thumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/busking/2018-06-29-3-busking-progress-tw.png"
ogthumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/busking/2018-06-29-3-busking-progress-og.png"
---

Angel Station is one of my favourites! It's the home of an extra-wide platform, the longest escalators on the Underground network and the fourth-longest escalators in Western Europe. Aside from these thrilling facts, it used to my local station for a year and a half when I lived down the road. Lovely area.

Anyway, I took in £19.28. Nothing to write home about but not to be scoffed at. That's £9.64 for [Crisis](https://www.crisis.org.uk/) and the same for me.

I was there for 1h50m, which makes my hourly salary £10.71. Not bad!

## Some notable moments

During a performance of _Bored Bored Bored_, I was recognised by somebody. They first asked if I was American, and when I said "No," they claimed they'd seen me in the USA! Then they scarpered. If anybody knows anything about this, please get in touch.

Also, normally I would put a photograph of the pitch here but somehow I forgot! Oops! Imagine the most well-organised, compelling collection of musical instruments and super fun signage that just makes you really want to give the busker money, and you'll be imagining someone else's busking pitch.

## The first tip

Paolo Nutini's _New Shoes_ got the first tip: £1! Cheers, Paolo. According to my log, it was a "Mediocre" performance, too.

{% include _figure.html src="/img/busking/2018-05-04-angel-view.jpg" caption="The view from the pitch" %}

## The best performance

Honestly, I wasn't on top form this day due to having had a long break of 3 weeks. But thanks to having done it recently at some open mics, _Bored Bored Bored_ went well.

## The biggest tip

Sadly the biggest tip was about £1.50 for _The Lazy Song_, shared between two people.

## How to improve

I think I need to do this at least once a week or I lose momentum, to be honest - Angel deserves me at my best!
