---
layout: post
title: You must take the bad with the good
date_created: 14 March 2013
location: Austin, TX, USA
---

With a suitcase full of free t-shirts, free cups, free stickers, free packs of doritos, free advice and free spirits, I return to the homeland.

The Queen will be delighted with the influx of business cards from CEOs and Heads of Product, and the makerbot-built guitar picks that I am **definitely going to use at gigs as a talking point**.

But what did I take back from "South-By" which can't be weighed in grammes or ounces, but only in some difficult-to-explain measure which probably got its own buzzword this week? **What did I learn?!**

h2. 1. Take the Bad with the Good

"I wrote a post about this":/blog/bad-with-the-good while I was at the festival.

I met two people this week who are very well-respected in their fields. They are both powerful, well-loved and in-demand for their time, thoughts and opinions. They are both inspirational people.

I told them both about an idea I have been mulling over for a long while. It isn't a low-cost, low-risk idea I can spin up over a weekend, but more of a high-cost, high-risk idea in an industry which has been saturated for a while but welcomes new recruits all the time.

One of the people loved it. This guy was someone I hugely respect and have a lot of time for, whose presence online I follow and whose speeches and acts of social activism inspire me.

The other guy thought it was terrible. This guy was somebody respected by thousands for his thought-leadership and successful entrepreneurism.

They both had their own reasons for thinking the idea was great or terrible, but I took advice from both and tried to think of ways to channel criticism into something productive.

I knew this was a good thing to do anyway, but I learned it again here, and felt the emotional rollercoaster that goes along with that learning.

h2. 2. Everyone is doing the same thing

If I see one more social discovery app I think I'm going to cry. The truth is, many spaces are insanely busy at the moment. It's difficult to get into many of them and yet people keep trying.

Apps have their various niches and different types of user experience which both differentiate themselves.

The key thing though, as with any social app, is adoption - and I can't see how they can all be successful in the long-run without the massive adoption needed to take it to the next level.

A lot of them are not going to last until the next SxSW, sadly.

h2. 3. There's so much to do

The lifestyles of some of the people at South by South-West are inspiring.

Creators, entrepreneurs, activists - many, many people who've shunned the lifestyle enjoyed or loathed by many of us of working hard to realise somebody else's dream - are doing it well.

It is actually quite frustrating though, being in this position, because you can't do much but watch. At least, until you get back to real life. And the inspiration you got from these people needs to remain when you get back.

The momentum needs to keep up.

h2. 4. Silicon Valley is not All That

As somebody in tech who works in London, obviously I know that Silicon Valley is not the only tech 'cluster' area.

From the outside of the US it's easy to think that when a tech company is born, it's born in or moves immediately to the Valley.

There are many other tech hubs in the United States: Las Vegas; Portland; New York City. I met folks from various startups, from all over the country. I always thought that if I moved to the US, I would have to go to San Francisco. I no longer believe this.

The US is full of opportunity, all over the place.

h2. 5. There are __many__ people like me

I am an ambitious developer who wants to be more in control of his own life. I want to "be my own boss" as it were. There are many, many people like me.

