---
layout: post
title: The Books I Read in 2015
date_created: 31 December 2015
location: ??
description: The books I read in 2015 with short reviews/synopses.
thumbnail: THUMBNAIL FROM AMAZON HERE
---

## Kingsman

* So much fun! Deeply gory book, definitely one for Bond fans out there

## Choose Yourself by James Altucher

While I feel that most "self-help" books tend to be a bit silly and full of lots of contextually-relevant advice and information which the reader generally can't use, Altucher tends to give more broad advice, usually to do with just nudging one in the direction of honesty, positivity and independence about whatever situation one is in. His style is extremely conversational, so pick this up only if you're prepared to find some parts slightly irritating to read.

## Marvel Civil War by Mark Millar

I bought this after I saw an infographic explaining Disney's plans for the Marvel Cinematic Universe, and decided it might be an interesting read ahead of the movie(s) currently planned for 2016 as *Captain America: Civil War*. While I wasn't familiar with about 50% of the characters in the book (there are lots of them) this was still a hugely entertaining read and very, very gripping. The art, too, is fantastic.

## Kingsman: Secret Service

A funny but refreshingly old-school take on the British Spy genre, Kingsman made me want to be spy, even more so than my recent obsession with Bond has. It seems more accessible and realistic, yet at the same time completely out there and ridiculous. Really great art, too.

## Look Who's Back by Timur Vermes

When I told my friends I was reading "a book about Hitler" a silence followed, until I explained that the book is about Hitler waking up in 2013 in Berlin with no memory of the previous 60 odd years. It didn't take long for them to get on board. While this is most certainly a comedy, it is also informative and introduced me to some of the other people involved in the Third Reich, and suggested some of the more deluded motivations that they all (including Hitler himself) might've had. Written by a German but translated most excellently by a Brit, this novel has a fun, accessible style. Great read.

## Ms. Marvel: No Normal by G. Willow Wilson and Adrian Alphona

I came across this on Mike Rugnetta's [PBS Idea Channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VALaI9HpmUw), and was curious because Ms. Marvel seemed to be somewhat of a departure from some of the characters people are familiar with. This is the story of a young, Muslim, American girl, and her newfound life as a superhero. It's really funny, very self-aware and isn't afraid to include as plot devices what some may deem to be touchy subjects. Yet, Ms. Marvel is not a gimmicky story, and would be an interesting and fun tale regardless of whether the protagonist was Muslim or not. Excellent read!

## The Psychopath Test by Jon Ronson

Ronson explains the confusing, vague world of psychiatric disorder classification. The reader gets an interesting and entertaining tour of psychopathy and the many people whom, for better or worse, are involved with the disorder.

## On Her Majesty's Secret Service by Ian Fleming

Finally Bond really shows his vulnerable side, exposes himself and gets beaten and bruised in the process, only for it to all fall apart. One of the saddest, so far.

## You Only Live Twice by Ian Fleming

I'm fairly sure this book is largely responsible for popularising many of the probable myths and stereotypes that most of the western world holds about Japan. Nevertheless, this is an entertaining novel which is lighter on the misogyny than previous stories. It's the Bond equivalent of a mid-life crisis, clearly written towards the end of Fleming's career as the author of 007 novels.

## Batman: The Dark Knight Returns

We all know the dark Batman stories of the silver screen, but this Frank Miller take on the Dark Knight takes it to a whole new level. In this story (which provides the basis Batman vs. Superman: Dawn of Justice) we follow an old, bored Bruce Wayne as he takes up the job he retired from years ago. Chilling stuff!

## The Man with the Golden Gun by Ian Fleming

* One of the stranger tales in the series

## Octopussy and the Living Daylights by Ian Fleming

* Almost feels like Fleming is describing himself in Octopussy
* Living daylights, meh

## Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift

* Surprised at how sardonic this story is, much longer than anticipated and really fun
* Good introduction to Swift's works if you knew nothing about him before

## A Kim Jong-Il Production by Paul Fischer

* Has a real sense of dramatisation to it, which may be appropriate given the topic
* Documents a rare glimpse into the personal life of the Dear Leader

## Dear Leader by Jang Jin-Sung

* Much more serious account of life in mostly Pyongyang by a member of the elite who fled the country after becoming disillusioned, so a bit different from most refugee tales we hear. Thrilling, and at times angering (it's hard to feel *too* much sympathy for the author at times, who sounded like he had quite a priviliged life compared to those who suffered around him).

## Good Omens by Terry Pratchett & Neil Gaiman

* Quite funny and fast paced, typical Pratchett with glimpses of Gaiman
* Darkly humorous at times, existentially

## Outposts by Simon Winchester

Slightly outdated now, this travel journal written in the 1980s takes Winchester on a trip around the "surviving relics of the British empire". I felt a mixture of nostalgia for a time I never experienced and relief that we live in a fairer age, and learned about a number of interesting places I'd love to learn more about. Witty, entertaining and informative.

## Off to be the Wizard by Scott Meyer

An immensely poppy novel, but really good fun. This is a *Matrix*-esque story with a lot more humour, pop culture references and which appeal very much to my slightly childish side. Easy and exciting read, good for a longish plane journey.

## A History of Modern Britain by Andrew Marr

One Amazon Reviewer slammed it for having the same content as an "A-level in history", which was great for me because I never took an A-level in History. This much-needed account of post-WW2 Britain really helped me to understand how my country is the way it is, and now I have lots of interesting follow-up subjects to look into.

## A Short Introduction to Buddhism

Following a few months of seeing Buddhist temple after Buddhist temple, trying to wade my way through Wikipedia articles and variously-spelled translations in museums throughout Asia, I found this book to be highly recommended on Amazon as an "academic" look at the religion. While that is certainly true, it does have soul and explains in a little detail the two main sects of Buddhism, touching on others along the way. It includes a brief history, explanation of rules, comparison (there's little in common) to other religions and discussion of Buddhism in the modern Western world. Really, really helps if you know very little and dispels a few common myths. I'd recommend reading this at the beginning of a long trip around Asia.

## Man in the High Castle by Philip K. Dick

In an alternative reality where the Allies were defeated in WW2, Germany & Japan own the world. This is a thrilling and fascinating novel. Trying to understand the potential cultural effects of a different outcome to the second world war makes this such a compelling story. But the conclusion is confusing. I'm left wondering what I'm supposed to take from it. Then, that in itself is a theme of the book. Read it.

## North Korea Confidental by Daniel Tudor and James Pearson

This is the first book about North Korea that I've read which properly echoes what I was told by the foreign tour guides and mirrors what I observed while I was in the country in October 2015. While acknowledging the backwardness and brutality of the regime, Tudor and Pearson shine a light on the truth about North Korea's emerging market economy, as well as properly emphasising the individuality and agency of North Korean people, as opposed to the robotic drones they are so often depicted as. While other accounts may be accurate and interesting, this is a look more recent developments in the DPRK which the media often overlooks in favour of sensationalist headlines.