---
published: true
layout: post
tags: [travel,travel-exclusive,trip-2015,pyongyang]
title: DPRK Part 2&#58; Hello North Korea
description: The second in a series of posts about the world's most secretive country, North Korea. The contents may surprise you.
thumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/dprk-part-1/dprk-part-1-thumbnail-tw.png"
ogthumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/dprk-part-1/dprk-part-1-thumbnail-og.png"
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
date_created: 19 October 2015
location: Taipei, Taiwan
comments: false
time_to_read_estimate: 15
---

KITC guides (that's Korea Internation Tourism Company, in case you didn't read [Part 1](/blog/dprk-part-1) in this series) do not mess around. Breakfast at the Yanggakdo hotel starts at 7, and our bus was due to leave at 7:30. After all, this was one of the busiest periods of the year in Pyongyang, North Korea (officially DPRK), what with the 70th Anniversary of the Worker's Party celebrations going on: we had tourist competition. It was a 

I scoffed my freshly-cooked eggs, bought a freshly brewed coffee (in Korean, much to the surprise and delight of the barista) and jumped on our bus.

The schedule for the day was very clear thanks to our guides from KITC, the smartly dressed but good-humoured Ms. Li and her trainee-assistant, the on-trend and generous Mr. Baek.

First we'd drive down to Kaesong, the famous city which North and South Korea use for an industrial complex where they do business together. We'll drive right through it, head to the DMZ (Demilitarised Zone) at Panmunjom and then go back to Kaesong and check out some historical sights.

I was particularly exctied about this day because it reminded me so much of a typical two-day tour in South Korea. In South Korea, a typical tour involves a day visiting the DMZ from their side and then a day visiting palaces, temples and museums. So this was my chance to see the North Korean version of a tour I'd experienced about 2-3 times in South Korea.

---

## "No Photos" on the road

A common rumour you hear about the rules on the road between sites in South Korea is that they close the curtains so you can't take photos. I don't know what it was like in the past, but I can tell you with total confidence that for us, this was not the case.

The trouble is, the roads are *so bumpy* that you don't *want* to take photos. Add that to the fact that the photos are gonna be pointing out of a reflective window and you might as well just put your camera away and enjoy the scenery. And there is plenty of scenery to enjoy.

Mountains ranges, hills, forests, rivers, streams: the road from Pyongyang to Kaesong was full of great stuff to see. There's also plenty of farmland. We drove past loads of rice paddies, some of which were actively being tended.

## No job too small

Ms. Li explained to us a little about how rice farming works in the DPRK. She told us that in rice farming, transplantation of rice plants is quite common all over the world, but in North Korea they do a "double transplant" - twice as often as other places - because the country struggles so much with irrigation. She told us that the drought this year was aleviated by this transplanting method, and they expected a very good harvest this year.

What struck me as interesting however was that during the transplant periods, everybody gets involved because it's a lot of work. "Blue collar workers, white collar workers... even tour guides will do transplanting work!" She was understandably proud of this fact.

It reminded me of the moment we landed at Pyongyang International Airport. I remember looking out of the window of the plane and noticed a group of men standing by a side door of the terminal building, messing around and roughhousing. A supervisor-type man walks up to them and they straighten up and stand to attention. No more messing around, they form into two lines and begin marching in perfect unison to the plane with their supervisor.

The hold doors open and a little conveyor belt/bag trailer rolls up, attaches to the aeroplane. The baggage handlers do their thing, but then another guy turns up: the pilot. He and the supervisor start helping out with the bags. Not just standing and giving orders, either: getting on top of the machinery, lifting bags and placing them carefully onto the trailer. There was no ego on display here.

After this, I noticed little things which suggested to me the kind of attitude to status which North Korea has encouraged its citizens to take. When an older man and a younger woman spoke, they appeared to speak with respect and friendliness to one another.

Respect and friendliness is something which North Koreans generally don't feel towards America, though, as we learned on our way to the DMZ.

## Who *really* started the Korean war?

Our guides were keen to explain to us the history of the Korean war on the way to its most famous historical (and present) site: the 250km-long DMZ between North and South Korea.

Most of the world understands and recognises that the Korean war was started by the North Korean forces -- backed by China and the Soviet Union by led by Kim Il-sung -- in order to take the area below the 38th Parallel from the South Korean forces -- backed by the United States and led by I Seungman/Syngman Rhee -- on the 25th of June 1950. At the time, both governments were very new (2-3 years old) and both claimed to be Korea's legitimate government. A bloody war ensued, twenty-one countries were involved and the front line moved many times up and down the peninsula.

The general jist of the war is more-or-less the same to the North Koreans, but important facts are different or ignored. The DPRK claims that the United States instigated the war. According to North Korea, America *controlled* the South Korean government and forced the army to invade the North, and polite requests to stop from the Northern soldiers were ignored.

We learned much more about this later in the tour, but for now, it's important to note that this is what were told on the bus. We were also asked not to argue: it's not worth it, because it's an argument we won't win. So, throughout the tour the USA, and Americans in general are referred to as "US Imperialists".



### Before you go...

If you want to see some footage of the DPRK which I recorded, I've been posting videos on [my YouTube Channel](https://youtube.com/basicallydan). Check it out.

Also, Koryo Tours have plenty more DPRK information and photos if you want further glimpses into North Korean life, largely on social media: [Instagram of Vicky, my tour guide](http://instagram.com/vickyinam), [Koryo on Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/koryotours), [Koryo on Twitter](https://twitter.com/koryotours), [Koryo on Tumblr](http://koryotours.tumblr.com/). They also have a website where you can find out about their tours and humanitarian projects, [koryogroup.com](http://koryogroup.com).

Finally, if you're interested in the divisive issue of the ethics of touring in North Korea, [the Guardian recently wrote an interesting piece](www.theguardian.com/travel/2015/oct/08/north-korean-tourism-ethics). Give it a read.