the flight in was rattly at first because it was such a small airplane. also because of, probably, China's goegraphy. Mountains.

We were treated to the inflight entertainment of a morangbong bang concert. Anybody familiar with DPRK music knows of this band, very talented group of ladies who get a lot of work performing for the party and hopefully, if we're lucky, us (as part of a MUCH larger group).

Food was some kind of burger. very tender but tbh barely meat. Mostly veg.I am not gonna complain of course but by modern standards it was a bit of a simple plane meal. Might fit 1990s BA.

the first reaction I got from speaking korean was serious, genuine surprise from the air hostess serving me water. I asked in korean for some water and some cofffee and her eyes widened as she looked at me.

Since then people have always been surprised but in different ways.

When we got in we went to see a football match. At first it got a bit hairy - the military guards were unhappy with the fact taht we werre arriving massively late (about 20 minutes, which in football terms is a lot) but our guide convinced them after some argument.

During the match the Koreans around us seemed awkward... until the second half. After a while they loosened up and reacted to our standard football banter and even shared a feew smiles with us.

After that it was dinner time. Most of the food (85%) was western so understanding the little Korean food they had was really helpful. they were not as amazed at my langauge but still, it meant more and better food imo.

After that we did some billiards (the staff werre super nice, a bit cheeky (in a good way) and very genrous), then bowling (we luckily managed to get to play with the lady in charge - also remember pa-i-ting), then finally karaoke with some koreans and on our own. We sang so many random western tunes.