title: The pragmatic argument for electric cars
---

There are a multitude of arguments for why society should start using electric cars over petrol-powered cars. The environmental argument, the cost argument, the subsidy argument, the coolness argument, the low-maintenance argument, and so on.

A reason I'd like to discuss briefly is the pragmatic argument. We live in a world where the majority of the vehicles are powered by a tank of petrol which is burned in order to create energy to get the motor moving. Imagine you get stuck somewhere with no petrol, or - as unlikely as it may seem in the short term - the world runs out of oil. In this scenario, your vehicle is useless. It cannot move because it requires a specific type of fuel which is not available. You're stranded.

Now replace these petrol-powered vehicles with electricity-powered vehicles. Maybe the electricity to charge the battery in this vehicle was originally generated by an oil-burning power plant. Or maybe it was coal. Or maybe it was some other non-renewable resource. Whatever it was, that resource is gone now. You can no longer generate electricity with that resource, because it is all gone.

In this scenario, you're not stuck. Electric vehicles don't require a specific type of fuel to run, they just require electricity. Simple, unopinionated electricity, which can be generated in a multitude of ways.

Maybe you get stranded by a river, but you can build a waterwheel to generate electricity to charge your battery. Maybe you get stranded in the middle of a sunny desert in the middle of the day, but you have some solar panels so you can just plug them in and start charging. Maybe you have a device which will [create charge from a burning stove](http://biolitestove.com/). Or maybe you just get stranded in a small town, where you can ask a kindly stranger for access to a wall socket in exchange for a bit of money.

In case you haven't gathered yet, my point is this: For all the wondering "where the charge comes from", it just **doesn't matter**. Electric cars can be powered by many, many more types of source than petrol cars.

Right now, it's not as fast to do so, because the infrastructure for electric cars is not as 