---
published: true
layout: post
title: Redesign 2015
date_created: 12 March 2015
location: London, UK
comments: false
---

Some time back in `2005`, I started my personal website, [danielhough.co.uk](http://danielhough.co.uk). The idea was to advertise myself as a freelance web developer. I was 17 years old. I quote [from the site](http://web.archive.org/web/20060505042750/http://www.danielhough.co.uk/index.php?c=services) at the time:

> I offer my service as a web designer for small business or personal websites. I have more than 5 years experience in HTML and have been using PHP & MySQL for around a year.

{% include _figure.html src="/img/2006-danielhough-screenshot.png" caption="My website in 2005, and 2006." %}

Back then I didn't have much content to share with people. Not professional content, anyway. I had a huge pile of Flash animations, a couple of songs that I'd written and some holiday snaps, but not much when it comes to web development. Therefore, the site was necessarily simple. There wasn't much to share, so the site wasn't cluttered. Yes, it used tables, but it looked fine for 2005. Clean, simple, not overly offensive to the eyes.

After I went to university in late 2006, [something went wrong](http://web.archive.org/web/20070205105801/http://www.danielhough.co.uk/).

{% include _figure.html src="/img/2007-danielhough-screenshot.png" caption="My website between 2007 and 2009." %}

Wise colour choices and understanding of contrast were beyond me at that point, I guess that the HCI module at university must've had more of an effect than I thought. However, at least I had become more vocal. I had started to write more and expose some of my creations (mostly then flash animations and music, like before) more openly. Curiously, the [experiments](http://web.archive.org/web/20070205105349/http://www.danielhough.co.uk/index.php?c=experiments) page of this site includes [my first hack](/blog/my-first-hack), the Random Sig Imager, but sadly its website no longer exists.

## The New Design

The above retrospective really only exists as an interesting walk down memory lane. I don't claim to have come *very* far in my design skills, but it's fair to say that what I've created today is considerably nicer to look at, read and use than what I had back in 2005, 2007 and probably even in 2009.

I've redesigned my website every year since 2010, each time taking into consideration existing design trends and trying to incorporate a bit of my personality. Last year when I became self-employed I started to take it a little more seriously, realising that my website could be make-or-break for getting new work. The way I represented myself online suddnely became more important. Not only did it need to show off the best parts of my professional and extra-curricular lives, I had to encourage the right kinds of people to get in touch with me.

I started using colours, whitespace, sizes and placement more deliberately in order to make sure that users did what I hoped they would do - click one button over another, but still make sure that all the relevant information was available.

---

This year I've made my goals even more explicit. I started a [Trello board](https://trello.com/b/4jXXVO1f/danhough-com-redesign) (if you haven't made a Trello board, are you even *planning* yet?!) to write down the goals and loosely plan how the site would be built.

The Trello board helped me to collect a bunch of ideas together, including some personal sites I'd seen that I thought had done a great job of achieving some of the things I wanted to achieve.

## Inspiration

[Alex MacCaw's minimalistic homepage](http://alexmaccaw.com/) inspired me pare-down my own a little and curate it more carefully. [Paul Stamiatou's article page](http://paulstamatiou.com/traveling-and-photography-part-1/) and header showed me that the left-sidebar layout I was going for just wasn't optimal for reading articles. [Harry Roberts's conversion-focused use of CTAs](http://csswizardry.com/work/) and "instructional" copy seemed very encouraging to me and I liked reading [Ben Howdle's projects list](http://benhowdle.im/) for its simplicity in explaining what each Thing He'd Worked On was in a single sentence.

Some of these websites have strongly influenced my design, such as Paul's top bar. This is a common element in websites these days, but when I made the decision to do it, it was because I'd seen how well it worked on Paul's site.

In other cases, they gave me the push to achieve a similar effect.

## Imperfection

I still constantly worry about the spacing. This is something I come back to every time I'm designing a site: have I left enough space between elements, or have I left too much? I've taken care to keep spacing linear, with three standard sizes to use depending on the situation.

<aside markdown="1">
```scss
// Margins/padding
$small-margin:0.5rem;
$standard-margin:1rem;
$large-margin:2rem;
```
</aside>

Despite having this small set of rules to guide me, some things felt wrong. In most instances, headings have the same top and bottom spacing in relation to surrounding elements. In articles this looks fine, but on the homepage it looked wrong - because the headings of the lists were the same size as the list items (to prevent it from becoming too noisy and distracting), it became difficult to distinguish between these two types of element.

Ultimately, on the advice of some friends I ended up giving those headings `$large-margin` above and `$standard-margin` below. This may not match up with the article style, but that's a different context, so I'll let it go. Not every design can pull off such monotony.

## Progress

Another feature I stole from [Paul Stamiatou](http://paulstamatiou.com/) was a progress bar. I had to read the same [CSS tricks article which feature's Stammy's progress bar](https://css-tricks.com/reading-position-indicator/) before realising that the best element to use for this was, in fact, the native HTML5 `<progress>` element. It works a charm: very smooth, subtle, and helps the reader to decide whether they're going to read, skim, or skip an article.

Spotted it yet? Look at the top of your browser viewport. There it is! If you don't see it, please let me know. :wink:

## Talks

A feature that I had intended to add to the previous iteration of my website is a [list of talks I've done](/speaking).

**Why?** Well, I enjoy public speaking, and I'd like to improve at it and hopefully, at some point, make it a regular part of my career. In order to indicate to people that I'm capable of this and interested, it seems sensible to keep a log of the talks I've done and link to/embed videos if they're available.

## Thoughts?

If you have any thoughts on the design, spot any bugs in some functionality (broken links, images that won't load, dodgy-looking formatting etc.) I'd love to hear about it - thanks. And thanks for reading!
