---
layout: post
title: The Books I Read in 2017
date_created: 01 January 2018
location: London, UK
comments: true
description: The books I read in 2017.
time_to_read_estimate: 5
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
tags: [books]
thumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/books-of-2017/books-of-2017-thumbnail-tw.png"
ogthumbnail: "!SITE_URL!/img/books-of-2017/books-of-2017-thumbnail-og.png"
---

<!-- KEEP IT TO 560 characters -->

Back in 2016, I went crazy with the books, and [about two years ago I wrote this](/blogs/books-of-2016). But in 2017 there were far fewer books and I was pretty lazy keeping it up to date.

## [Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World](https://www.amazon.co.uk/d/Books/Hard-Boiled-Wonderland-End-World-Haruki-Murakami/0099448785/?tag=daplad-21) by Haruki Murakami

I became quite interested in Japanese Culture in 2016 and for this reason decided early on in 2017 to become acquainted with Japan's (arguably) most internationally well-known author. Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World, originally 世界の終りとハードボイルド・ワンダーランド, is not the sort of book I would like to spoil by talking about it too much here, but I will say that it was certainly unlike most novels I've ever read. Murakami demonstrates sharpness and wit, and a sense of existential resignedness which I tend to find quite appealing. The "hump"[1] of this book was quite far in for me, about 30%, but I did quite enjoy it.

## [The Little Book of Common Sense Investing](https://www.amazon.co.uk/d/Books/Little-Commonsense-Investing-Guarantee-Market-Returns-Profits/0470102101?tag=daplad-21) by John C. Bogle

What a surprise that the man responsible for popularising index funds is writing a book encouraging people to invest in them! I joke, though - Bogle offers compelling, simple, concise arguments for putting most of your eggs in a collection of sturdy, uncomplicated and unexciting baskets made from a diverse range of weave, which will carry said eggs reliably throughout your life. He also succeeds in using much better analogies than me. It's a great read, won't take you long and might help you to understand financial markets a little better.

## [Mother Tongue: The English Language](https://www.amazon.co.uk/d/Books/Mother-Tongue-Story-English-Language-Bill-Bryson/0141040084?tag=daplad-21) by Bill Bryson

Despite being written in the 1990s, this book has aged well. Younger readers (under 20) may be confounded by his description of certain words as "new" in parts, but the points are clear and timeless. He's a total zealot for English, but not unfair to other languages - in fact, he frequently points out ways in which other languages are "better" than English, while still maintaining quite obviously that his native tongue is his favourite. Full of interesting etymology titbits [sic] and wordplay, this was a real page-turner. Check it out if you're interested in language and/or English.

## [The Handmaid's Tale](https://www.amazon.co.uk/d/Books/Mother-Tongue-Story-English-Language-Bill-Bryson/0141040084?tag=daplad-21) by Bill Bryson

A lot of people like to point out how much _The Handmaid's Tale_ feels like a stark warning to people in 2017 worried about a crackdown on civil and human rights. I agree - it is. All dystopian fiction is this. I suspect many people who say they're shocked by it probably haven't read a lot of dystopian fiction. That doesn't make this any less important or shocking, though, and sheds light on an often-underlooked side of this genre, which focuses on the experiences of women in these horrible imagined futures. It's well-written and relateable, a little hard to follow at first but after getting used to the format not difficult at all. Definite recommendation.

## [Modern Romance]() by Aziz Ansari

Fun, honest, and up-to-date with even 2017's 20-something dating rituals this is pretty entertaining. I'd recommend it for anybody who, like me, has recently become single (at time of reading I had, anyway).

## [Norwegian Wood](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B005TKD6NY?tag=daplad-21) by Haruki Murakami

## [Colorless Tsukuru Tazaki and His Years of Pilgrimage](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B00I3DNUR6?tag=daplad-21) by Haruki Murakami

## [The Metamorphosis](https://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/product/B01N7KS3X7?tag=daplad-21) by Franz Kafka

## [Prisoners of Geography]

---

Now let's look at 2018.

## How Not to Be a Boy (Audio) by Robert Webb

This was the first of many audiobooks I listened to in 2018, and what a book to start with. I'm certain that _so many men_ grew up with some difficulty understanding what being "a man" should mean, and Webb's take on it is honest, smart, and reassuringly relatable. I'd reccommend this book to any man, or anybody who wants to understand some of the internal struggles that men deal with.

## How to be Champion: An Autobiography (Audio) by Sarah Millican

Sarah Millican is a super positive and uplifting person to listen to. She's had an interesting and inspirational journey so far. Fun read, generally pretty easy but fizzles out a little from time to time. Might be better as a paper book!

## Born a Crime: Stories from a South African Childhood (Audio) by Trevor Noah

Eye-opening if you're not too familiar with South Africa or 20th Century South African history, and want an eyewitness account of the complexity of life in the country. Plus, it's Trevor Noah! He's a delight.

## James Acaster's Classic Scrapes (Audio) by James Acaster

This is essentially a collection of funny stories from Acaster's life where he's got himself into some ridiculous situations. Pretty light listening/reading, a lot of fun.

## Why I'm No Longer Talking to White People About Race (Audio) by Reni Eddo-Lodge

This was wonderful, and educational, and at times difficult to listen to. If you're not familiar with this book, based on a blog post, then the basic idea is that white people (I am white, FYI) largely refuse to accept the realities of structural racism. If you're somebody who is scepitcal or - from a different perspective - optimistic about whether racism is "still a thing", then listen to Eddo-Lodge before coming to a conclusion. Racism is not as straightforward as an old white person being openly distrustful of people of colour, it's deeper than that and often difficult to spot if you're not on the receiving end. If you're not convinced, [start here](http://renieddolodge.co.uk/why-im-no-longer-talking-to-white-people-about-race/).

## Animal: The Autobiography of a Female Body (Audio) by Sara Pascoe

## Star Wars: From a Certain Point of View

This was a real find. I don't think I realised how much I enjoyed hearing well-known stories from a different perspective until I read this. Basically, it's the story of Star Wars (episode 4!) from the perspective of characters who were in backgrounds, peripherals, or maybe not even on the screen at the time - told chronologicaly. It's brilliant if you're a Star Wars fan.

## How to Be a Woman (Audio) by Caitlin Moran

## Bossypants (Audio) by Tina Fey

I love Tina Fey. Her goofy jokes, her don't-care-what-you-think-but-actually-wait-no-I-do attitude, her energy! She's a wonderful perfomer and writer, and it translates SO well to this audiobook. Plus, this audiobook features some recordings from sketches and scripts which are a wonderful break in the flow of the book.

## The Examined Life

A friend of mine bought this book en-masse to give to everybody she knows. It's hard to tell if there is a narrative, but _The Examined Life_ tells short accounts of a psychotherapist's former patients, explaining what the patients and the therapist learned along the way. As someone who tends to overthink and analyse his feelings and thoughts, this was appealing, and helped me realise the potential value in doing so with a professional.

## I Hate the Internet

## Introducing Marxism: A Graphic Guide

## Introducing Linguistics: A Graphic Guide



-- notes here ---

### Notes

[1]: The "hump" refers to the point at which I become desperately compelled to continue reading a book, and do not want to put it down. Up until this point it can be a struggle, but I don't think a book is necessarily bad for having a deep hump. Some stories/concepts just take a little bit more setup than others. And for some books the hump never comes, but for most it does. Once I am past this point I refer to it as being "over the hump". An easy book for me to read is one where the hump comes early.
