---
layout: post
title: The Books I Read in 2025
date_created: 31 December 2025
location: Melbourne, VIC, Australia
comments: true
description: The books I read in 2025.
time_to_read_estimate: 5
twitterCardType: summary_large_image
tags: [books]
---

## Dark Emu by Bruce Pascoe

Finished: April 2025

As a new arrival in Australia, Pascoe offered me soem wonderful insights and myth-busting revelations which have helped me to understand a little about the extremely-long-lived Aboriginal cultures which preceeded Europeans and continue to exist alongside the culture which dominates the common vision of Australia today. Pascoe explains this in detail, sometimes passionately but never condescendingly, knowing full well that the reader probably has had quite a poor education on pre-colonial Australian society. Highly recommended, read with an open and curious mind.

## Wicked by Gregory Maguire

Finished: May 2025

Having read it many many years ago, I thought I'd remember more. However I think because I've seen and listened to the musical so many times, and seen and listened to the first film so many times, I forgot how different Wicked the novel is from its eventual stage and film adaptation. I don't know if I think it's as weird as the reputation it has suggests, but it is a bit odd and strangely written in parts. I see what Maguire is trying to do in terms of explaining The Witch, but it feels a little rushed and unbelievable at times. Nonetheless, good fun and quite gripping.

## The Ministry of Time by Kaliane Bradley

Finished: June 2025

What I thought would be a gripping sci-fi romp full of conspiracies and dystopias was a lot more light-hearted. More akin to a historical fiction romance, it was a lot of fun, and still did pack a decent punch in terms of sci-fi thriller intrigue.

## Shades of Grey by Jasper Fforde

Finished: Aug 2025

Excellent send-up of British class, society, and culture in what feels like a silly short story idea which went way too far. Fforde's mostly-subtle jabs at the arbitrary rules, idiosyncracies and inconsistencies is so much fun, very satisfying to read and actually has a very compelling narrative even aside from the humour. I immediately fell in love with this page-turner!

## Piranesi by Susanna Clarke

Finished: Aug 2025

This journal-format novel is a fascinating mystery which slowly unfolds with each chapter. A very satisfying read if you do it in a handful of sittings, since it's easier to follow the mysteries and their conclusions. It's in general quite an easy read, and especially fun for those of us who enjoy lo-fi world-building in fantastical, almost absurd settings. I think there's a message - or a moral? - too, to do with the nature of relationships with an unequal power dynamic. Not sure about that one. I couldn't put this one down, though!

## Katabasis by R. F. Kuang

If you're at all interested in classical philosophy, logic and mythologies from around the world, I highly recommend this fun fantasy novel. Kuang playfully merges various myths about hell, the underworld, death and rebirth and effecitvely takes them all at face value. What if Orpheus and Dante were _both_ real living people from history and _both_ had indeed visited hell? And what if the people of the 20th century still went from time to time? What if magic were a mundane field of study, and had practical applications in modern life but was quickly being sidelined by rapidly advancing digital technology?

A lot of fun, with a lovely allegorical moral to go along with it and a slightly-too-tropey but still enjoyable love story.
