---
layout: post
title: How to write decent iOS release notes
date_created: 03/04/2013
location: London, UK
---

As a product manager, you may not often feel like you have a way to directly affect what your customers see when they use your app. You ask the developer(s) to implement features *x* and *y*, and you coordinate with the copywriters to make sure the messaging on error *z* is correct.

But you're not speaking directly to them. Well, the release notes that you type into that little box when you release the latest version of your app is your chance to have a bit of fun. I love writing release notes - even for TestFlight releases! Here's my short list of things to keep in mind when writing release notes.

h2. Know your audience

My first instinct is always to keep it light. But that's because the app that I make has a pretty light-hearted brand, and it's a consumer app. I like to say things like "Hey guys!" and "Have fun with feature *x*!" Generally, I'd recommend to do this. When I read any release notes, I like to know that there's a person behind those release notes, who is excitedly sitting there thinking, "They're gonna love this update."

Speak like a human being, not a robot. Unless for some reason you have a hilarious faux-robotic brand voice, then it's allowed.

But on the other hand, don't go overboard. Your users may be strapped for time, or working for somebody who wants hard facts about the latest version of the software they're using. If your release notes are so full of fluff and personality that the actual information you're trying get across to them is too difficult to extract, then you've failed at your job.

h2. Keep it brief

This isn't your app's iTunes page. Your users are already bought in, so don't list every feature like it's the first time they've ever read it and you're trying to sell to them. Tell them about the exciting new features and the fixes for bugs that have been bothering them for ages.

h2. UTF-8 is your friend

Luckily, iOS has huge UTF-8 support.

h2. Be grateful to your users

If a user is reading these notes, the chances are that they are an existing user. They're loyal. They may have even given some incredibly useful feedback in the past which has shaped the product. They might've driven your downloads by giving you consistently 5-star reviews.

Reward this with a little nod to the loyalists, reviewers, testers and powerusers. A simple *Thank you :)* is the least you could do.

h1. Some apps with great Release Notes

* "CityMapper":http://citymapper.com/ - a true inspiration
* Yelp
* Huddle*

* Disclosure: I work at Huddle - but I don't write the release notes for the main app :)